---
layout: post
title: "Why USP?"
author: "Larry Law"
categories: articles
tags: [advice]
image: tree-of-life.png
---
<div align="center">
    <i>"Curious, Critical, Courageous, Engaged"</i>
</div>

*(Disclaimer: This is the POV of a CS + USP major)*

<!-- omit in toc -->
## Content
- [What can USP offer me?](#what-can-usp-offer-me)
- [What’s the differences between someone who is in USP and someone who isn’t](#whats-the-differences-between-someone-who-is-in-usp-and-someone-who-isnt)
- [Common misconceptions about the Programme](#common-misconceptions-about-the-programme)

## What can USP offer me?
**Passionate Community:** The USP community is brimming with passionate individuals. I personally love how most individuals here are always striving to be a better version of themselves in all fronts - academic, social, career, the list goes on. 

However here's the caveat - some may view the community as "intense". But the different perspectives of USP underscore the importance of *knowing what kind of community you will thrive in*. If you are/strive to be an "intense" individual, then USP is the right place for you. After all, you are the average of the five person you hang out with.


**Multidiscplinary Thinker:** I loved the fact that I am exposed to how other disciplines think, via both *my friends* and *modules*. As a CS student, I tend to get too focused in the technical details. Thus I'm thankful for my humanities friends to remind me of why I do what I do, my business friends for questioning if what I do even makes business sense, and I'd like to think that I, as a CS student, have shaped their thinking in a unique way.

More generally, I believe that every discipline brings its own unique strengths, in terms of the way we think, our personality, and our expertise. Without being exposed to other discplines, it's easy to get lost in an echo chamber that compounds on our own strengths and weaknesses. But when you surround yourself with others who think so differently from you, you will learn many unexpected lessons, and come out as a more holistic individual.

**Residential Life Throughout University:** One underrated aspect of USP is that we *can* stay throughout university, unlike other RCs.

> Stay is dependent on the availability of rooms, but we are guaranteed two years. 

This has two important implications:
1. **Your USP friends will be with you throughout your undergrad journey.** Unlike JC where you only have 2 years to bond with your classmates, here in USP you have 4 years to create memories with your USP friends.
2. **Having seniors and juniors.** I'm thankful to have really capable seniors who have gone out of the way to give me career and life advice. Unlike JC where life is alot more straightforward, you have alot more autonomy in charting your life out in uni. But this autonomy comes with doubt and uncertainty. Thus it's invaluable to have seniors around you to ask for advice. 

## What’s the differences between someone who is in USP and someone who isn’t 
*(I'll mostly focus on the factual differences here).*

| USP | Non-USP |
|-----|---------|
|Need not do GEM modules (except GER1000)  |Need to do GEM modules  |
|Can apply for USP exchange programmes too  |Only limited to faculty exchange programmes  |
|  |  |

## Common misconceptions about the Programme

> We are financially sponsored as scholars.

False. USP does not sponsor you financially. This being said, there are RC bursary/scholarships which you can apply for.

> *All* the modules have a heavy workload

False. The workload of a module spans over a large range. There's always an easy/hard module for you to choose from. This being said, the learning is generally inversely proportional to the work load: the more you put in, the more you learn.

> USP people are elitist.

Mostly no. While there might be individuals who are elitist, the majority of the people here are *wholesome* :).

University applications can be daunting, but I hope this piece of article helps you make a more informed decision. If USP is for you, I look forward to seeing you in cinnamon college, and am extremely excited for you as you craft your own narrative here.

All the best!
