---
layout: post
title: "NUS, CS3243, Tutorial 1: Introduction to AI & Basic Search"
categories: archive
hidden: true
---
# Q1
## Q1(a)

`state` space: the set of all states reachable from the initial state by any sequence of actions. Elements include,
1. List of people in recommended list
2. List of people in user's social network
3. User attributes too (these are part of the state, thus part of the state space)

`action` space: set of the possible actions available to the agent. Elements include,
1. Priority queue of the list of people

> Action of the agent, not the user (thus not adding, deleting friends etc)

## Q1(b)
**Utility Function:** Internalisation of the performance measure.

1. `utility(s, s')`: 
   1. Measures the performance of the recommendation system based on the improvement in the state of social network. Concretely, this improvement can be specified by the number of people added into the social network. (perhaps, we can also add the number of people that the user viewed)
   2. `s`: state of social network
   3. `s'`: state of social network after usage of recommendation engine (say, a day's usage)
2. PYMK tries to maximise the size of each user's social network, in order to make them spend more time on the platform.

## Q1(c)
1. **Adding/viewing person:** Positive feedback to the system that it has predicted correctly.
2. **Removing person:** Negative feedback to the system that it has predicted wrongly.

## Q1(d)
The system can learn from
1. User feedback
2. User attributes (education, work, mutual friends)

**Exploration actions:** Learn more about the world since this may improve its future gains
1. Learn more the user's preferences by experimenting with new suggestions
2. Exploitation vs Exploration tradeoff: Explore in the expense of optimising for performance measure

## Q1(e)
This system should use
1. User attributes

This system should not use
1. Personal details
2. Financial info
3. Medical info
4. User attributes which the user has not given consent for

# Q2
Utility function is **internally** used by the agent to evaluate performance, whereas performance measure evaluates agent's **external** behaviour

# Q3

|Task Environment  |Algo. Trader  |Chess Player  |Poker Player  |
|---|---|---|---|
|Fully Observable  |F - hidden information  |T - knowledge of the board  |F - unaware of opponent's hand  |
|Deterministic  |F - other players in the market might trade at the same time  |T  |T  |
|Episodic  |T  |F  |F  |
|Static  |F  |T  |T  |
|Discrete  |F  |T  |T  |
|Single Agent  |F  |F  |F  |

# Q4
Clear criteria vs Generality trade off: The clearer the criteria, the more specific the test.
