---
layout: post
title: "NUS, IS1103: Innovations in Organisations and Society"
author: "Larry Law"
categories: notes
hidden: true
---
Textbook: A Gift of Fire by Sara Baase, 4th edition

<!-- omit in toc -->
# Table of Contents
- [Ethics](#ethics)
  - [Deontological Theories](#deontological-theories)
  - [Utilitarianism](#utilitarianism)
  - [Natural Rights](#natural-rights)
  - [Negative and postive rights, or liberty and claim rights](#negative-and-postive-rights-or-liberty-and-claim-rights)
  - [Golden Rule](#golden-rule)
  - [Contributing to society](#contributing-to-society)
  - [Social Contracts and a theory of political justice](#social-contracts-and-a-theory-of-political-justice)
  - [Some important distinctions](#some-important-distinctions)
    - [Right, Wrong, Okay](#right-wrong-okay)
    - [Distinguishing wrong and harm](#distinguishing-wrong-and-harm)
    - [Separating Goals from Constraints](#separating-goals-from-constraints)
    - [Law and ethics](#law-and-ethics)
- [The Fair Use Doctrine](#the-fair-use-doctrine)
- [Missions](#missions)
  - [Mission 2](#mission-2)

# Ethics 
*(Page 26 - 40)* <br />
Ethics is the study of what it means to "do the right thing."

## Deontological Theories
Deontologists tend to emphasize duty and absolute rules, to be followed whether they lead to good or ill consequences in particular cases. (Process rather than outcome) (e.g. Do not lie) 

Deontology is based on three main principles
1.  **Universality:** we should follow rules of behavior that we can universally apply to everyone
2.  **Logic or reason determines rules of ethical behaviour, that actions are intrinsically good because they follow logic**
3.  **Never treat people as merely means to ends, but rather ends in themselves**

## Utilitarianism
Maximisise happiness, or "utility." The variants of utilitarianism include:

> Main example of a consequentialist theory

1. **Act utilitarianism:** For each action, we consider the impact on utility and judge the action by its net impact.
   1. Drawbacks: 1) Does not respect individual rights and 2) Hard to quantify happiness
2. **Rule util:** applies the utility principle not to individual actions but to general ethical rules (eg Do not lie).

## Natural Rights
Acting in such a way that respects a set of fundamental rights of others (including rights to life, liberty, and property)

Emphasises the ethical character of the *process* by which people interact, instead of the *result* of the Interaction.

## Negative and postive rights, or liberty and claim rights
**Negative or liberty rights:** Rights to act wo interference <br />
**Positive or claim rights:** Impose an obligation on some people to provide certain things for others.

Points of Conflict between Liberty and Claim Rights:
1. liberties are almost worthless by themselves and that society must devise social and legal mechanisms to ensure that everyone has their claim rights, or positive rights, satisfied, even if that means diminishing the liberties of some
2. there can be no (or very few) positive rights, because it is impossible to enforce claim rights for some people without violating the liberties of others.

## Golden Rule
Treat others as we would want them to treat us. Caveat: Don't take it too literally.

## Contributing to society
Aristotle says that one lives a virtuous life by doing virtuous acts. Doing one’s work honestly, responsibly, ethically, creatively, and well is a virtuous activity

## Social Contracts and a theory of political justice
**Social contract theory:** "the idea that people willingly submit to a common law in order to live in a civil society (p33)"

”John Locke thought people could enforce moral rules, such as the rights to life, liberty and property, in a state of nature but that it was better to delegate this function to a government instituted by an implicit social contract."

> State of Nature, a dismal place where each man acts according to his own interests, no one is safe from physical harm, and there is no ability to ensure the satisfaction of one’s needs

## Some important distinctions
### Right, Wrong, Okay
Think of acts as either ethically obligatory, ethically prohibited, or ethically acceptable, instead of right and wrong. Many acts might be virtuous and desirable but not obligatory.

### Distinguishing wrong and harm
Carelessly and needlessly causing harm is wrong, but it is important to remember that harm alone is not a sufficient criterion to determine that an act is unethical.

### Separating Goals from Constraints
**Constraints:** constraints on actions that may be taken to achieve the goal (means)
**Goals:** end

### Law and ethics
1. Ethics precedes law in the sense that ethical principles help determine whether or not we should pass specific laws.
2. Unfortunately, many laws fall into a category that is not intended to implement ethical rules—or even be consistent with them
3. While it is not ethically obligatory to obey all laws, that is not an excuse to ignore laws, nor is a law (or lack of a law) an excuse to ignore ethics.

# The Fair Use Doctrine
The fair use doctrine 
1. allows uses of copyrighted material that contribute to the creation of new work (such as quoting part of a work in a review)
2. uses that are not likely to deprive authors or publishers of income for their work.

Copyright law lists 4 factors to determine "fair use"
1. The purpose and nature of the use, including whether it is for commercial purposes or nonprofit educational purposes. (Commercial use is less likely to be fair use.)
2. The nature of the copyrighted work. (Use of creative work, such as a novel, is less
likely than use of factual work to be fair use.)
3. The amount and significance of the portion used.
4. The effect of the use on the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work.

# Missions
## Mission 2
