---
layout: post
title: "USP, USE2312: Nationalism and the Arts"
author: "Larry Law"
categories: notes
image: singapore-flag.jpeg
hidden: true
---
Lecturer: [A/P Ryan, Barbara Therese](http://www.usp.nus.edu.sg/about/meet-our-professors/barbara-ryan/) <br>

<!-- omit in toc -->
# Table of Contents
- [Stint Learnings](#stint-learnings)
  - [Xiang Min's Group](#xiang-mins-group)
  - [Sze Kay's Group](#sze-kays-group)
  - [Jet's group](#jets-group)
  - [Xuan Qi's Group](#xuan-qis-group)
    - [Chai's Group](#chais-group)
    - [Yang Peng and Brenda](#yang-peng-and-brenda)
- [Readings](#readings)
  - ['Debate on Azar Gat’s Nations: The Long History and Deep Roots of Political Ethnicity and Nationalism' by John Hutchinson, Chris Wickham, Bo Strath, and Azar Gat](#debate-on-azar-gats-nations-the-long-history-and-deep-roots-of-political-ethnicity-and-nationalism-by-john-hutchinson-chris-wickham-bo-strath-and-azar-gat)
    - [John Hutchinson: Introduction](#john-hutchinson-introduction)
    - [Chris Wickham: nations in the middle ages](#chris-wickham-nations-in-the-middle-ages)
    - [Bo Strath: Nationalism and Historical Discontinuities](#bo-strath-nationalism-and-historical-discontinuities)
    - [Azar Gat: nations: their long history and deep roots](#azar-gat-nations-their-long-history-and-deep-roots)
    - [Questions](#questions)
  - ['Imagined Communities' by Benedict Anderson](#imagined-communities-by-benedict-anderson)
    - [Concepts and Definitions](#concepts-and-definitions)
    - [Cultural Roots](#cultural-roots)
    - [Primacy of Capitalism.](#primacy-of-capitalism)
    - [Element of Fatality.](#element-of-fatality)
    - [Relation between Print-Languages and National Consciousness](#relation-between-print-languages-and-national-consciousness)
  - ['Dreaming our own Dreams: Singapore Monodrama and the Individual Talent](#dreaming-our-own-dreams-singapore-monodrama-and-the-individual-talent)
  - ['The White Bird' by John Berg](#the-white-bird-by-john-berg)
  - ['What is Art?' by Leo Tolstoy](#what-is-art-by-leo-tolstoy)
  - ['What is a Nation?' by Ernest Renan](#what-is-a-nation-by-ernest-renan)
- [Lessons](#lessons)
  - [Lesson 7: Imagined Communities](#lesson-7-imagined-communities)
  - [Lesson 6](#lesson-6)
    - ['Art That Looks Back At You'](#art-that-looks-back-at-you)
  - [Lesson 5](#lesson-5)
    - [Mini Lecture: Gellner: Three Stages](#mini-lecture-gellner-three-stages)
  - [Lesson 4, 29/01:](#lesson-4-2901)
  - [Lesson 3, 22/01:](#lesson-3-2201)
  - [Lesson 2, 17/01: Discussion of 'What is a Nation' by Ernest Renan](#lesson-2-1701-discussion-of-what-is-a-nation-by-ernest-renan)
  - [Lesson 1, 15/01: Introduction](#lesson-1-1501-introduction)

# Stint Learnings
## Xiang Min's Group
1. How to categorise art: if it is an attempt ot translate a message received from a real bird (sth organic).
2. How to evaluate art: If the "aesthetic moment offers hope." Here, aesthetic refers to sth organic (not design).
3. Cyclical interaction between the state & the nation.

## Sze Kay's Group
1. Theory-applicaiton of Pheng Chea's quote (which seemed so contradictory alone, but the application made her theory clearer.) Concretely, I learnt 1. "Other", 2. Mechanism of "dislocation" 3. How 2. can simultaneously constitute the self identity
2. Creative agency can be unconsciously limited, despite the flexibility to design the art.
    1. As Sara & Yue Xiang mentioned, despite the agency to design, the outcome of most art pieces still contained MBS.
    2. Pushes back Levin's emphasis of the individual's agency.

## Jet's group
1. Subtle differences suggest that there is a lack of sincerity
2. Sharing experience = authenticity?
3. Unselfconscious sincerity --> But it was commissioned by the state :/
4. State influence is inversely proportional to individuality of feeling

## Xuan Qi's Group
1. When we make a judgement call of what is Singaporean, there is a presumption of a preexisting idea of Singapore's nation - can be explained by daily plebiscite
2. Daily plebiscite
    1. Recognise that the nation exists
    2. Judge whether or not an experience constitutes the nation (so I judge that an exp is not, but the majority of SG feels otherwise, then am I still part of the nation?)
3. You can resonate with the SG experience, yet not see yourself as a Singaporean. 
4. Sharing with the imagined community does not equate to identifying oneself with it.
    1. Still, is sharing with the imagined community a step towards the identification of oneself with it, since this sharing connects the community?

### Chai's Group
1. Tolstoy's perspective of art is more static: on what is art vs not art, what is good art vs not good art
    1. River that cannot be stepped into twice.
    2. Universal and Timeless Meaning
    3. Clarity
    4. Unidirectional communication of a predetermined feeling --> Even the artwork can surprise the artist himself
2. PC's theory of art is more dynamic
    1. Meaning of art as "sliding movement or flickering"
    2. Receptivity towards the unfamiliar
    3. Entanglement or interpenetration
3. Agent-arena relationship in art
    1. Artist and Art: Reflexive relationship between artist and art 
    2. Art and Audience
    3. What's the difference between the agent-arena rs and regular interaction?

Learning Points
1. Tolstoy's theory of art is more static whereas PC's theory of art is more dynamic.
2. Agent-arena relationship which elaborates the reflexive interaction between 1) artist and the art and 2) art and the artist.

Strengths
1. Flow of stint was clear. Content was easy to follow - good job!
2. Handled transition to e-stint well: pasted questions to ensure no wastage of time. The lessons conveyed were not distorted by the fact that it was online.

Room for improvement
1. I don't quite see the difference between the agent-arena relationship and regular interaction.
2. Given that most classmates felt that CDOSA was confusing and even the artist was surprised at his own work at times, the agent-arena relationship came across as disruptive instead of constructive in CDOSA.

### Yang Peng and Brenda
Learning Points
1. Extends Levin's theory in that CDoSA's features both disables and enables the audience, yet both effects collectively empowers the audience.
2. CDoSA is an imperfect work in progress (thus clumsy), in that the answer to the artist's original question is constantly evolving and changing.

Strengths
1. Built on the previous group's stint well by interrogating the foreign concept of Agent-Arena relationship.
2. Brought up inconspicuous elements of CDoSA which audience might have overlooked (such as not being able to rewind, fastforward etc). 
3. Application of Berger's theory was refreshing (to a student unfamiliar with Berger).

Room for improvement
1. I'm surprised that both groups' focus was not on the content of CDoSA itself, but its surrounding ideas (For Chai's group, the focus was on effect of the CDoSA on the audience and artist. For Brenda's group, the focus was on CDoSA's features and the artist's description of CDoSA.)


# Readings
## 'Debate on Azar Gat’s Nations: The Long History and Deep Roots of Political Ethnicity and Nationalism' by John Hutchinson, Chris Wickham, Bo Strath, and Azar Gat

### John Hutchinson: Introduction
"Azar Gat’s new book is distinctive in offering a bold new perspective on the pervasive and explosive power of nationalism and nations in the modern period."

"What is novel about Gat’s position is that he accepts the definition of nationalism of an archmodernist, Ernest Gellner (as a principle that states political and ethnographic boundaries should be congruent) to argue that both nationalism and nations **can be found in much of human history**" 

> **POV:** Title: "Long history and Deep Roots"

"Gat argues human beings favour kin over strangers because they share more genes with the former. Nations thus are grounded in human nature and this explains the primordial passions evoked by nationalism."

**Summary of Gat's Scholarship**
1. "... repudiation of modernist arguments that seeks to refute them on their own terms."
2. "... arguing in socio-biological terms that such nations are rooted in naturally evolved human propensities."
3. "the world of nations, though built substantially on ethnic bases, is largely a modern phenomenon brought into being by the ideology of nationalism."
4. "... repudiates what it sees as the Eurocentric and diffusionist assumptions of much nationalist scholarship."

### Chris Wickham: nations in the middle ages
**Provenance.** "Medieval historian."

"Medievalists are used to looking to the debate about the nature and origins of nationalism between what Azar Gat calls modernists and ‘traditionalists’ with **mild surprise**; of course, there is something in the medieval ... period that can be called ‘national identity"

"It is thus fairly clear that I am likely to be sympathetic to an argument that tracks the roots of national identity quite early in time, as Azar Gat’s does."

**Counter Arguments**
1. "... he restricts himself to adopting the empirical arguments of one of the proponents of the relatively **essentialist argument** without contextualisation, and to attacking two of the proponents of the median position with surprising force
2. "... peasant resistance to invaders shows an ethnic/nationalist sensibility does not hold water;"
3. "My third point is about cities. Gat does not think that city-states, even very coherent ones, can be ‘nations’, because they are normally parts of a wider ‘culture/ethnos’" ... " I think he risks here in another way the **old nationalist trap**, of assuming that a language-based Italian identity was the ‘real’ national one."
4. "Gat’s useful set of elements for his definitions, listed above, are in my view much more useful if they are seen instead as the key elements of a well-formulated set of ideal types.

### Bo Strath: Nationalism and Historical Discontinuities
**Different approaches between "Nations" and the "Handbook"**
1. "He is looking for the **historical continuities** of national communities far beyond the onset of modernity. Breuilly and his team are looking for the **discontinuities** that provoked and accompanied nationalism"
2. "Both Nations and the Handbook were published in 2013 and they were thus not the target of each other. "

**Definition.** "[Gat] accepts Gellner’s *definition of the nation as a rough congruence between political ethnicity and state*, but rejects Gellner’s modernist perspective, and argues that exactly this Gellnerian definition suggests that nations are not confined to modern times."

**RQ.** "What were the concepts that described earlier forms of political ethnicity and what do these concepts tell us about differences as much as about similarities? I am asking for the **language of the time** Gat investigates."

"In order to study community as a historical category, we need to get closer to the language of the time we study rather than imposing our concepts on the past communities."

> **POV:** Hints at why we need to consider the language of time.

**Distinction between Nation and Nationalism** <br />
"If we distinguish between nation as community and nationalism as
ideology, the conclusion must be that the **explosive** potential emerged with nationalism as ideology."

"It is problematic to talk about concepts like political ethnicity and state in terms of constants over centuries or millennia." 

> **POV:** Definitions do not hold when discussing time-sensitive content.

**Discontinuities** <br />
"Charles Tilly discerned a discontinuity in the shift from medieval to early modern in his dictum that states make warfare and warfare makes states."

### Azar Gat: nations: their long history and deep roots
"Nations and nationalism are not primordial. Nonetheless, they are rooted in primordial human sentiments of kin-culture affinity, solidarity and mutual cooperation, evolutionarily engraved in human nature."

"The real question, then, is whether or not the national phenomenon existed in this sense before modern times." - Why is this important?

"I adopt Ernest Gellner’s definition of the nation as a rough congruence between culture or ethnicity and state. Yet he and other modernists have erred in claiming that such *congruence was confined to modern times*"

"I accept that the strength and role of ethnic and national identities and sentiments varied greatly depending on time and place.

**Anderson's Mistakes**
1. "Religion was the primary and most powerful medium of the premodern national ‘imagined community’
2. "the view that universal religious identity preceded national identity ignores the national religions of most peoples before the rise of universal religions"
3. "Anderson’s emphasis on literacy and print technology has been much exaggerated, because illiterate societies had their own potent means of wide-scale cultural transmission."

"the ultimate test of common nationhood is the self-perception of the population in question, Renan’s daily plebiscite"

> **POV:** Importance of Renan even till this day!

### Questions
> What's the distinction between nation and nationalism?

> "The real question, then, is whether or not the national phenomenon existed in this sense before modern times." - Why is this important?

## 'Imagined Communities' by Benedict Anderson
**Prep Tips 1.**
1. Quickly and succinctly re-tell the narrative that he crafted of national consciousnesses coming into existence
2. Explain what 'imagined communities' means: the powerfully new proposal that he worked out to improve (obvs, in his judgment) on Renan's and Gellner's theories.

> Possibly extend Anderson by exploring the mechanics of this interplay? Feels as though he is hiding alot of details behind this interplay.

**Prep Tips 2.**
1. Mindfulness that Anderson crafted his argument with deep knowledge of Renan, Gellner, and other theorists of nationalism.
2. Bring to class one date that you think relevant to Anderson's argument. Example: when did paper reach Europe?  Example: when did Anderson publish Imagined Communities? (1991)
3. Also, notice how his discussion of Asian places, and of Africa, differs from Renan's, without ignoring a sort of middle concern to those categories, Turkic people.  Then, ponder Gellner's treatment of language in relation to Anderson's: do you find these treatments substantially the same or significantly different?
4. Be ready, finally, for a quiz on what Anderson means by 'fatality'.

**Dates.**
1. 14th October, 1066: Norman Conquest (language of England)
2. C. 1440: Printing press in Europe (funnels many languages to specific concrete languages)
3. 1517: Martin Luther kickstarted the Reformation
4. 1648: End of counter reformation
6. 1789: Beginning of the French Revlution
7. 1882: Renan's paper on  "What is Nation?"
8. 1935: Walter Benjamin's 'age of mechanical reproduction
9. 1983: Imagined Communities is published

**RQ.** "To understand them properly we need to consider carefully how they have come into historical being, in what ways their meanings have changed over time, and why, today, they command such profound emotional legitimacy."

**Thesis.** 
1. "I will be trying to argue that the creation of these artefacts towards the end of the eighteenth centuryl was the spontaneous distillation of a complex 'crossing' of discrete historical forces; 
2. but that, once created, they became 'modular', capable of being transplanted, with varying degrees of self-consciousness, to a great variety of social terrains, to merge and be merged with a correspondingly wide variety of political and ideological constellations. 
3. I will also attempt to show why these particular cultural artefacts have aroused such deep attachments."

### Concepts and Definitions

"Theorists of nationalism have often been perplexed by these three paradoxes:"
1. "The objective modernity of nations to the historians' eye vs. their subjective antiquity in the eyes of nationalists"
2. "The formual universality of nationality as a socio-cultural concept - in the modern world everyone can, should, will 'have' a nationality, as he or she 'has' a gender - vs. the irremediable particularity of its concrete manifestations, such that, by definition, 'Greek' nationality is sui generis (unique)."
3. "The 'political' power of nationalisms vs. their philosophical poverty and even incoherence. In other words, unlike most other isms, nationalism has never produced its own grand thinkers"

**Definition of nation:** an imagined political community - and imagined as both inherently limited and sovereign.

**It is Imagined**  <br />
"It is imagined because the members of even the smallest nation will never know most of their fellow-members, meet them, or even hear of them, yet in the minds of each lives the image of their communion."

**CA to Gallner.** <br />
1. "Nationalism is not the awakening of nations to self-consciousness: it invents nations where they do not exist."
2. "Gellner is so anxious to show that nationalism masquerades under false pretences that he assimilates 'invention' to 'fabrication' and 'falsity', rather than to 'imagining' and 'creation'."
3. "Communities are to be distinguished, not by their falsity/genuineness, but by the style in which they are imagined."

"The nation is imagined as limited because even the largest of them, encompassing perhaps a billion living human beings, has finite, if elastic, boundaries, beyond which lie other nations;"

**Imagined as Sovereign** <br />
"It is imagined as sovereign because the concept was born in an age in which Enlightenment and Revolution were destroying the legitimacy of the divinelyordained, hierarchical dynastic realm."

**Imagined as Community**
"Finally, it is imagined as a community, because, regardless of the actual inequality and exploitation that may prevail in each, the nation is always conceived as a deep, horizontal comradeship."

### Cultural Roots
"Nationalism has to be understood by aligning it, not with self-consciously held political ideologies, but with the large cultural systems [religion] that preceded it, out of which - as well as against which - it came into being."

"The very possibility of imagining the nation only arose historically when, and where, three fundamental cultural conceptions, all of great antiquity, lost their axiomatic grip on men's minds"
1. Religion
2. "Second was the belief that society was *naturally organized around* and under high centres"
3. "Third was a conception of temporality in which cosmology and history were indistinguishable, the origins of the world and of men essentially identical."

"... search was on ... for a new way of linking fraternity, power and time meaningfully together. Nothing perhaps more precipitated this search, nor made it more fruitful, than print-capitalism, which made it possible for rapidly growing numbers of people to think about themselves, and to relate themselves to others, in profoundly new ways"

**Reading up on the Author**
1. Anderson is a marxist

**RQ.** "Why, within that type ['horizontal-secular', 'traverse-time'] did the nation become so popular?"

### Primacy of Capitalism.
**Print Capitalism.** This chapter describes how print is a manisfestation of capitalism.

"One of the earlier forms of capitalist enterprise, book publishing felt all of capitalism's *restless* search for markets."

**Interplay between print, capitalism, religion (reformation), and political agenda (vernaculars as instruments of administrative centralisation)**

This "revolutionary vernacularising thrust of [print] capitalism was given further impetus by three extraneous factors, two of which contributed directly to national consciousness."

1. **Change in the chracter of Latin itself.** Shift from ordinary to upper class language. "Increasingly removed from ecclessiastical and *everyday* life. In this way it acquired an *estoric* quality."
> Here, Esotric (intended for or likely to be understood by only a small number of people with a specialized knowledge or interest) hints at the quality of it being upperclass. 
2. **Impact of Reformation.** The Reformation was a movement within Western Christianity in the 16th-century Europe that posed a religious and political challenge to the Roman Catholic Church and papal authority in particular. Capitalism and Reformation worked hand in hand to spread the print.
    1. "The coalition between Protestiantism and print-capitalism ... quickly created large new reading publics ... and simultaneously mobilezed them for politico-religious purposes.
    2. **POV:** Language as a tool used by Capitalism.
3. **Vernaculars as instruments of administrative centralisation by ... absolutist monarchist.**
    1. **POV:** Language as a tool used for political purpose. "One clear sign of the difference is that the old administrative languages were *just that:* languages used by and for officialdoms for their own inner conv. There was no idea of systematically imposing the language on the dynasts' various subject populations."
> Vernacular: the language or dialect spoken by the ordinary people in a particular country or region.

**In this interplay of factors, language has been the natural choice.**

"In every instance, the 'choice' of language appears as a gradual, unselfconscious, pragmatic, not to say haphazard development."

**The result of this interplay of factors is imagined communities.**

"What, in a positive sense, made the new communities imaginable was a half-fortuitous, but explosive, interaction between a system of production and productive relations (capitalism), a technology of communications (print), and the fatality of human linguistic diversity

### Element of Fatality.
Explains the relation between language and capitalism, and how the interplay accentuates the lines that dilineate imagine communities; it explains why imagined communities are limited.

1. **Context.** "What ... made the new communities imaginable [nations] was a half-fortuitious, but explosive [hints at the *unintendedness* of the *combustion* of the right mix], interaction between [capitalism], [print], and the fatality of human linguistic diversity."
    1. "Capitalism ... found in death and languages two tenacious adversaries." 
    2. **POV:** 
       1. Capitalism was not able to transcend areas which spoke different languages (thus "we still have no giant multinationals in the world of publishing"); 
       2. Ironic that languages were the fuel for print-capitalism, and yet it was its adversary. 
       3. In fact, the mechanics of capitalism impacted languages in a way that they became the lines that dilineate "imagined communities."

### Relation between Print-Languages and National Consciousness
1. "Print-languages (induced by capitalism) created unified fields of exchange and communication below Latin and above the spoken vernaculars.
2. "Print-capitalism gave a new fixity to language, which in the long run helped to build that image of antiquity [ancient] so central to the subjective idea of the nation."
3. "Print-capitalism created languages-of-power of a kind different from the older administrative vernaculars." The languages-of-power is in a more organic than political manner.

**Modularity** of the creation of nationalism.

4. "[Explosive interaction between capitalism, technology and human linguistic diversity] became formal models to be imitated, and where expedient, ocnsciously exploited in a Machiavellian spirit." 
   1. Unlike before where it was "explosive" (which suggest a lack of intent), now it's intentional.
5. **CA.** "Yet it is obvious that ... today many of [modern self-conceived nations] have [national print-languages] in common, and in others only a tiny fraction of the pop 'uses' the national language."
   1. **Explanation.** "Large clusters of new political entities that sprang up in the Western hemisphere ... inevitably provided the first real models of what such states should 'look like', but their numbers and contemp births offer fruitful ground for comparative enquiry." This hints at the new "source" of nations.


## 'Dreaming our own Dreams: Singapore Monodrama and the Individual Talent

1. **Lack of psychological space.** "Despite the picturesque enclaves displaying a generous distribution of space and opportunity for most of the city’s performing artists, *actual performance space* is still at a premium ... many of Singapore’s plays imply that *psychological space*, the room to grow imaginatively and independently, is in even shorter supply. (p170)" 
2. **Too many theatre activities.** "Though Singapore is abuzz with theatre activities, people involved say that not only are opportunities numerous, there are in fact too many. (p170)"



<!-- omit in toc -->
### The Uniqueness of Singapore 
*(p170-171)*
1. "Contemporary theatre in Singapore is somewhat of an anomaly in Asia – it is the one modern theatre that performs primarily in English."
2. "Like the city state itself, theatre in Singapore plays a unique role in interpreting an Asian consciousness in a medium readily comprehensible to the Western world, as well as interpreting Western contemporary aesthetics to Asians, and is, perhaps, overly assiduous in its function as cultural mediator." 
3. "Governed by a 'benign' dicatorship that ... has brought the majority of its citizens a level of unequalled prosperity"
4. **RQ.** "Given such a controlled and artificial environment in a tightly restricted space, what kind of art can be produced?"
    1. "This position – being constantly conscious of what the government will or will not allow – tends, however, to keep the theatre reactive rather than taking a creative lead."

> Culture is the one thing that we cannot deliberately aim. `T. S. Elliot`

**Audience.** Theaterists and not us. Title references to `T.S. Eliot`, who is associated with modernism. 

<!-- Q: This is unfair because...? -->

**Class Assignment:**
**Objective.** What questions we have
1.  "Reactive rather than creative" - limited by the gov
2.  "But while the gov ..." 
3.  "Criteria in judging how much freedom?" 

Questions
1. Doesn't define a clear standard of freeom in art
2. Diamond reduces the agency of artist and population by making the state all-encompassing
   1. Instead, learn from Eliot. (p172: "T.S. Eliot was prescient when he imagined the likely consequences of a state trying to cultivate 'art' directly"). In fact, the title references Eliot.
3. Is she downplaying the personal (...) of the *Occupation* to advance her own political agenda?
4. Why equate the ineffectiveness of art with immaturity?

**Random bits of knowledge**
1. Don't use 'perhaps' - if you are confident in your claim, then there's need for that qualifier. If you aren't, then you should make the claim gentler.
2. Don't use 'one senses' - it evades the need for evidence.
3. Passive voice - Usually used in science papers when it doesn't matter who conducted the experiment. But, when it matters who did it, you should use an active voice.

<!-- omit in toc -->
### The Trajectory towards State Approval 
*(p172 - 173)*
1. "In a society where the general populace
displays indifference toward contemporary
performance ... – the government’s hurdles and hoops could actually provide something of a stimulus by forcing dramatists to be creative in devising strategies to get around or transcend them."
2. **Challenge.** "But Singapore theatre has no underground, nor any sizeable audience that looks to the theatre for subversive alternatives.
    1. E.g: 'No Art Day' occurred without making a perceptible impact on anyone.
3. **RQ.** "While troupes depend on government funding and must obtain government permits to perform, most have opted to take an alternative position to the government’s narrative of the Singapore success story. (p170). This has created an uneasy relationship that undermines the strength of the theatre’s social-political critique and encourages self-censorship (p170)"

> "Self-censorship is the most dangerous form of the curtailment of freedom of expression." `Zygmunt Hubner`

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Struggles for Artistic Integrity
*(p173)*
1. "[Singaporan dramatists] try to carve out a territory in which they can exercise their imaginations freely".
2. **Challenge.** Many Singaporean dramatists are dominated by their own obsession with government restriction.

<!-- omit in toc -->
### The Importance of Monodramas
*(p173)*
1. "... monodramas have been important in the development of Singaporean theatre through their condensation and intensification of life embodied by a single character."

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Kuo Pao Kun's No Parking on Odd Days
*(p174)*
1. "Singapore’s PAP claims to up hold ‘Asian values’, the hierarchy in which national loyalty takes precedence over ethnic ties, and family commitments take precedence over self."
2. "The father’s belief in the state has eroded into a submissive compliance that he passes on to his son, who learns the lesson too quickly, without struggling first-hand himself."
    1. "The father heartbreakingly realizes that he has assisted in selling his son’s soul, making him into a good citizen by crippling his spirit."

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### The Father Becomes a Mother
*(p176)*
1. "Neo, as a single mother, makes her attempt to educate her son more poignant. Her financial and emotional marginalization in this conservative society more sharply contrasts the difficulty of her task with the hegemonic power of the state."
> **The boxing gloves.** Neo donned boxing gloves, both as emblems of the ‘male’ strength she needs to ‘do battle’ with the bureaucracy and to reinforce her stance as a fighter rather than a quitter
2. "With the father, he, and we, are left pondering the heavy price Singaporeans pay for security and prosperity; but with the mother, the fight assumes a greater air of desperation and requires more courage."
3. **Thesis.** "Perhaps Kuo is warning his protégées in particular to beware of the temptations to avoid the fight or pull their punches."

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Stella Kon's Emily of Emerald Hill
1. ‘It is the first Singaporean play by a woman to focus solely on the female experience.’

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Huzir Sulaiman's Occupation
*(p180)*
1. "The monodrama Occupation examines the life of another privileged woman (Mrs Siraj) during the Japanese wartime occupation of Singapore."
2. "The play highlights the contrast between the forty month incarceration of Mrs Siraj in the home of her wealthy Indian Muslim family with the psychologically cramped space Sarah feels she inhabits in modern-day Singapore." (Similar tension in the SG art scene?)
3. "The point of the narrative is not merely the paradox of Mrs Siraj’s personal happiness during a time of global duress, but that Sarah, in a peaceful and prosperous Singapore, faces more dismal psycho logical detachment than Mrs Siraj in her wartime mansion ever did. 

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Haresh Sharm's Rosnah
*(p181)*
1. "Presenting a contemporary young Malay Muslim woman who confronts both the constraints of tradition and custom, and the uncharted dilemmas of individual freedom as she steps out of home and country to study at London University"
2. **A Character or a Construct?** "As in most of the other monodramas, the actor portrays the central figure and then takes on other characters in his/her life as if they were cerebral emanations projected onto the stage, refracted through his/her consciousness. 

> Her identiy as a muslim is glossed over by Diamond. (Repeatedly mentioning Malay, and only stating Islam once) Is she downplaying religion?

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Kuo Pao Kun's Lao Jiu
*(p183)*
1. "Kuo Pao Kun’s Lao Jiu relates to a similar dilemma between the generations, particularizing it by staging some of the conflicts the dramatist faced with his businessman father."
2. "But his choice puts him at odds not only with society’s values but with his family’s expectations, since he is abandoning his responsibility to them, which should prevail over whatever inclination he feels towards himself.

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Domesticating Social Consciousness
1. Singapore’s theatre cannot but
be effected by its socio-political conditions, but it presents a strange amalgam of not only counter-narrative and reflection, but also the subtle absorption of the prevailing values and perspectives.

<!-- omit in toc -->
### A Theatre Defined by the State
1. "Being shut out from politics prevents the theatre from being a serious forum about any thing, and keeps dramatists from developing further by subjecting them to paternalistic guidelines that mire them in indefinite youthful rebellion."




## 'The White Bird' by John Berg
Questions:
1. What is meant by "this coincidence is two faced?" *(P8-2P)*
2. So... what is aesthetic?

**RQ:** What is aesthetics (in comparison to art), in the context of "the principle of hope and the existence of evil"? 

**Thesis 1:** Qualities of the white bird which provoke an aesthetic emotion:
1. *Figurative* Representation
2. Choice of subject + context renders the object *symbolic*
3. *Respect* for the material used
4. *Formal unity and economy*
5. Provokes a kind of astonishment

> Aesthetic emotion is defined by the intangibles ("figurative", "symbolic", "respect", "Formal unity and economy") as opposed to the tangibles (craftsmanship when compared to van Gogh self-portrait).

**CA1:** "These definitions *reduce aesthetics to art*. They say nothing  about the relation between art and nature, art and the world." *(P7P1)*

**Relation between beauty and nature:** 
1. "It is within this bleak natural context that beauty is encountered, and the encounter is by its nature sudden and unpredictable." *(P7-2P)*
2. "Beauty is always an exception, always in despite of. That is why it moves us." *(P7-1P)*

**Caveat: Beauty is not universal.** "The range of what a given community finds beautiful in nature will depend upon its means of survival, its economy, its geography." *(P8P1)*

**Relation between aesthetic and nature:**
1. "The evolution of natural forms and the evolution of human perception have coincided ..."
2. "The aesthetic emotion before nature derives ... from this double affirmation."

**Relation between aesthetic emotion before man-made object and nature**
1. "The aesthetic emotion we feel before a man-made object is a derivative of the emotion we feel before nature." (P9P20
2. "Art is an organised response to what nature allows us to glimpse occasionally."

## 'What is Art?' by Leo Tolstoy

**Thesis 1:** "Art begins when one person, with the object of joining another or others to himself in one and the same feeling, expresses that feeling by certain external indications."

This emotion can also be described as a "spiritual union," (#26) (or resonance as described by `YingFeng`) which is also mentioned in Renan's text.

**Assumption of Thesis 1:** 
1. "The activity of art is based on the fact that a man, receiving through his sense of hearing or sight another man's expression of feeling, is capable of experiencing the emotion which moved the man who expressed it."
2. "Speech is a transmission of **thoughts**, while art is a transmission of **emotions**"

>  If they help in understanding the artist’s feelings, can text snippets like a title or short description be a part of the piece?

**CA.** But do we *verify* that the feeling invoked was "one and the same"?

**Thesis 1.1.** "only that part [of art] which we for some reason select from it and to which we attach special importance" (#17)

**Art is not...**
1. A means to *pleasure* (prevalent view of today) (#1)
2. Direct or immediate infection (eg yawning) (#6)
3. Manifestation of beauty
4. Game in which man lets off his excess of stored-up energy
5. Expression of man's emotions by external signs
6. Production of pleasing objects (#12)

**CA:** Some teachers of mankind (such as Pluto) repudiate art. They view art as so highly dangerous in its power to infect people against their wills that mankind will lose far less by banishing all art than by tolerating each and every art.

**CCA:** Art is an indispensable means of communication, without which mankind could not exist.

**RQ2:** Distinguish art from counterfeit art.

**Thesis 2:** The infectiousness of art. "The chief peculiarity of this feeling is that the receiver of a true artistic impression is so united to the artist that he feels as if the work were his own and not someone else's - as if what it expresses were just what he had long been wishing to express."

The stronger the infection, the better is the art.

Degree of such infection depends on:
1. **Individuality:** "the more individual the feeling transmitted the more strongly does it act on the receiver" (#31)
2. **Clearness:** "[the reader] has long known and felt, and for which he has only now found expression."
> Clearness of expression ≠ Clearness of intentions
3. Most importantly, **Sincerity in the artist:** "the reader feels that the artist is infected by his own production, and writes ... for *himself*, and *not merely to act on others*, this mental condition of the artist infects the receiver.

> If the artwork is sincere, it'll have greater individuality and clearness. (#34)

1. **Individuality.** "If the artist is sincere, he will express the feeling as he experienced it. And as each man is different from everyone else, his feeling will be individual for everyone else."
   1. **CA.** If "his feeling will be individual for everyone else," then how does the artwork still "unite" the audience and the artist?
2. **Clearness.** "And this same sincerity will impel the artist to find a clear expression of the feeling which he wishes to transmit."
   1. **CA.** Circular argument

> However, Tolstoy tends to make sweeping claims which become vague (ie "sincerity" or even "clearness"). He does so because he wants his theory to serve a wide range of artworks. (Evidence: Prof's prep tips for Tolstoy)

**Thesis 2.1:** Tolstoy states that "(Sincerity) is always complied with in peasant art, and this explains why such art acts so powerfully; but it is a condition almost entirely absent from **our** upper-class art, which is continually produced by artists actuated by personal aims of covetousness (greed) or vanity."

> Implies that Tolstoy's audience is the Bourgeoisie

Tolstoy's criticism of the upper-class art, as opposed to "peasant" art - art that is drawn by the common folk or art that depicts the life of common folk. `Merilynn`

> #14: "... or like Kasper Houser."

Usage of **Kasper Houser**, a character which likely only the literate know about (since there's no google yet...). Kasper was not raised by humans, thus he's described as feral (wild state). 

**Possible Interrogation**
1. Does "clearness" imply that good art pieces should be explicit about the intentions? Or should it be left intentionally vague, such that the emotions invoked can be tailoured to the individual?
   1. `Sandhya` mentioned that art is not explicit about what it is trying to convey.
   2. `Valerie` mentioned that this room for interpretation is the reason why art “can be misinterpreted,” and interestingly also “the beauty of it.” 
2. But what if the emotions invoked is clear ("which, he has long known and felt, and for which he has only now found expression" (#32)), but it is not the same as those of the artist, thus failing to "unite" the receiver and artist (#27). Does this make it any less art?
3. And how do we even know the original emotions of the artist? `Hai Yun`
4. Clearness is important to the extent of verifying that the emotions the audience is experiencing is the same as that of the artist (art unites people) `Darryl`
   1. But how do you reconcile the tension between the objective of clearness and art uniting people? When the artist is clear with his intention, and I realised that the intention does not align with the emotions I felt, does it make this any less art? `Me`
5. Art can also "divide people". 
   1. (e.g. "Sonic tension that arises when different cultures interact") `Sze Kay`
   2. In making art for Singapore, "would an outsider to these symbolic forms experience the same feeling and connection as I did? If not, does it become a lesser artwork? Or was this artwork, commissioned by SAM, deliberately meant to create a union of a Singaporean nation and exclude others?" `Sara` 
6. 

**Questions**
1. When we *interrogate* and *analyse* of the theory of art, do we need to also offer extensions of the theory? Or do we stop at questioning?
2. How do we demonstrate *awareness* of class discussion? Are we allowed to quote or build on the ideas of our classmates? 

## 'What is a Nation?' by Ernest Renan

**Research Question:** "But on what criterion should we base this national right (nation)? By what sign shall we know it? From what tangible fact can we derive it?"

**By Race:**
1. There are no pure races.
2. Race is diminishing in importance: "Aside from anthropological traits there is reason, justice, truth, and beauty, things that are the same for all." 

**By Language:**
1. Counter examples:
   1. "The United States and England, like Spanish America and Spain, speak the same language but do not constitute a single nation."
   2. By contrast, Switzerland, so well-made because created by the consent of its different parts, contains three or four languages. The desire of Switzerland to be united despite its linguistic variety is a much more important fact than similarity often achieved by humiliation. This hints at the importance of **liberty (over coersion) (daily plebiscite)** as to what constitutes a nation. 
2. Diminishing importance.

**By Religion:**
1. "There are no longer masses of people believing in a uniform manner." 
2. "Religion has become something individual and concerns the conscience of each"

**By Community of Interest**
1. Communities of interest determine commercial treaties

**By Geography**
1. Geography is too arbitrary a factor to categorise nations.
2. "Geography provides the substratum, the field of battle and of work but man provides the soul." 

**So what is a nation?**
1. **A Nation is a soul, a spiritual principle:** "One is the past, the other is the present. One is the possession in common of a rich legacy of memories; the other is present consent, the desire to live together, the desire to continue to invest in the heritage that we have jointly received."
2. **Solidarity**
3. **Consent:** "For us, a province is its inhabitants
and, if anyone in this affair has the right to be consulted, it is the inhabitant. A nation never has a true interest in annexing or holding territory that does not wish to be annexed or held."

> Notice that Renan specifically stated that a nation is 1) a "daily plebiscite" and 2) "spiritual principle." What is the difference between the two?

1. **Plebiscite:** Direct vote form individuals, which is the accumulation of differing opinions
2. **Spiritual Principle:** Everyone agrees to this principle

Further notice how this relate to the quote of "actions who are positioned at the intersection of multiple temporal contexts can develop greater capacities for creative and critical intervention" - actors being us!

# Lessons
## Lesson 7: Imagined Communities
> ... the formal rules of operation of the society, at work and in politics ... permit and, above all, **require** members of the society to have the same culture. The flow of context-free information is required for the running of the society in all its aspects. The information network requires that anyone can be slotted in at any point... Anyone not competent to take part in this flow of signals is an obstacle and an irritant [who] provokes reactions of hostility and exclusion, and is liable to suffer humiliation." - Gellner

Gellner said this in the context of the industrial modernity, thus the need for anyone to be able to "slotted in any time" (a cog in the machine).

<!-- Q: "Slotting in at any point" is contradictory to the agro-literate society which Gellner describes, since a man slotted into the agro-literate society will be very different from a woman. -->

## Lesson 6

> Everything else is trying to sell you something. Art is trying to sell you yourself. - Keith Tyson

> The only way to know is through trials of strength. "Knowledge" is the state of this battle front. - Bruno Latour

Modernist: The battlefront is divided between what you know and what you don't; attaining knowledge is about pushing this boundary.

Latour's CA: This is too static

### 'Art That Looks Back At You'
> Consider what he says about his goals as an artist.  

**Goals.**
1. Enable people to have richer kinds of interactive experiences.

**Thesis 1.** "Artists are obliged to really explore the expressive potential of the new tools that we have"

**Thesis 2.** "Interested in expanding the vocabulary of human action, and basically empowering people through interactivity."

1. **Problem.** "The mouse is probably the narrowest straw you could try to suck all of human expression through.""
2. **Solution.** Use full body input. voice, and eyes.
3. Mapping between sound and thoughts. 

What if art was aware that we are looking at it? How could it respond?

> Then consider each example that he presents.  

>Do Levin's assertions work with, or against, Tolstoy's?  What about the Berger passages that I've put on the whiteboards?  What about the Shitou claims?

**In Class Assignment**
Did he say enough? Did he not say certain things that are worth pulling out? Are there any tension between what he said and what he showed?

By having interactive experiences, the ownership is not with the artist, but with the **audience**.

He only state the artist, but his work showed the audience.

## Lesson 5
> Painting is the result of the receptivity of the ink. The ink is open to the brush. The brush is open to the heart. All this in the same way as the sky engenders what the earth produces. Everything is the result of receptivity. - Shitao

To me, this is related to Renan's reading, wherein he focused on liberty rather than coersion.

> When once the principle of collaboration has been understood, it becomes a criterion for judging works of any style... Or rather (because judgement has little do with art) it offers us an insight... -Berger

### Mini Lecture: Gellner: Three Stages
**Learning Outcomes**
1. Three stages of social development (how we got to nationalism)
2. Description of the third stage: modern bureaucratic nationalism
3. Criticisms of his theory

**Stage One: hunter-gatherer**

**Stage two: agro-literate**
> Agroliterate: Designating a polity or social system in which the majority of people are peasant agricultural producers, controlled by a small elite to whom literacy is largely restricted; of or relating to such a polity or system.

1. People didn't travel much and far.

**Stage three: industrial modernity**

1. People who had been peasants started moving.
   1. In Berner's perspective, he stated that the peasants might not have had a better life in the city.

**Becoming a cog**
1. History
2. Motivation
   1. They are kicked out of the land they were once employed in.
3. Mechanism
   1. **Problem.** People, who have limited literacy and only agricultural skills, are not prepared for industrial modernity are thrusted into it.
   2. **Solution.** Common language to communicate these skills. Once the work gets mechanical, it's better to have a common tongue.
   3. Language may be the criterion of nationhood 
4. Result: nationalism

**Criticisms**
1. Suggests radical change of attitude within a very short space of time. 
   1. CA: migrants agreed to give up their mother-dialects because they wanted to succeed (or just survive) in the urban setting but, even more, because they wanted their children to succeed or survive.
2. Doesn't explain agro-literate migrants' buy-in
3. Suggests migrants' with no ethnic heritage though there is evidence that some migrants of the period in question, and still now, maintain strong ties to their 'roots'.

**Random bits of knowledge**
1. Don't include qns within teaching stint as it may detrack your planned schedule
2. History vs Legend: History is about evidence, whereas legend is less falsfiable
3. **Benjamin Walter:** art has an aura (thus people go to the artwork itself, as opposed to seeing it through a screen)
4. **Prise apart** analysis of art

## Lesson 4, 29/01:
**Prep Tips**
> How close Renan (R) and Tolstoy (T) were temporally?

1. R: March 11th, 1882
2. T: 1896.

> How similarly they framed their projects: "what is x?" including "what is not x, that some people mistake for x?"

1. R: Nation is a soul, a spiritual principle. Nation is not race, religion, community of interest, geography.
2. T: Art is an expression of emotion. Art is not direct (#6), manifestation of some mysterious idea of beauty or god (#12), not pleasure.

> The oddity that both discussed 'spiritual union'
1. "Spiritual" suggests that the union is hard to describe, yet convincing.

> when I asked you about the ins and outs of reading up on the artist, did any of you think about Tolstoy being a literary artist?  If not, why not?  If so, how so?  Putting this thought-prod differently, do you come to the same decision about reading up on, or not reading up on, if you view the person in question as a theorist rather than an artist?

No I did not, the article wrote about theories explicitly, so I thought he was a theorist. There is a higher probability that I read up the person in question if he is an artist. This is because art is often subjective and open to interpretation, thus in order to gather more information on the art piece at work, my curiousity will steer me to read up on the artist.

> "The brush ... is for saving things from chaos."

**Random bits of knowledge**
1. Point of the mini quiz: How did you make the decision to read up Houster? If you didn't understand Houster and yet you skimmed by it, the decision to do so highlights something problematic.
2. **Pagan:** a person holding religious beliefs other than those of the main world religions. Often used as a "diss" word. 
3. I learnt how as a teacher you should listen to the opinions of your students, even if the opinions steer your lesson plan off track. And thank your students!
4. "Theory" of art in the "FASS" way: theories are falsifiable (~= testability) hypothesis; likewise, thesis should be falsifiable as well
1. "Struggling" on...
   1. "Feeling of hopeless dependency"

## Lesson 3, 22/01: 
**Prep Tips**

[Duchamps' Fountain](https://www.artsy.net/article/artsy-editorial-duchamps-urinal-changed-art-forever)
1.  The idea at hand, of art primarily as a concept rather than an object, is what would make Fountain arguably the most intellectually captivating and challenging art piece of the 20th century.
2.  What is a work of art? Who gets to decide, the artist or the critic? Can a work derive from an idea alone or does it require the hand of a maker?

**Intersection between Tolstoy and Renan**
1. **Everyday:** (?) & daily plebsicite
2. **Unity:** "Unity of mankind" & "spiritual principle"
3. **Nothing to resist:** Sincerity & Voalition

**The potter's flaw**
- Using gold or striking colours to accentuate the cracks
- Eg of art moving into mental health discussions

**Random bits of knowledge**
1. **Art is explicitly vague:** Sara stated that “every interpretation (of art) is personal yet universal.” Perhaps art is left intentionally vague to connect with the general audience, while leaving room for individual interpretation, thus collectively achieving this “personal yet universal” effect.
2. **Secularisation Thesis**
   1. World is increasingly secular
   2. Religion retreats to the private domain

## Lesson 2, 17/01: Discussion of 'What is a Nation' by Ernest Renan
> "Real Drawing is a constant question, is a clumsiness, which is a form of hospitality (openness) towards what is being drawn."

> "Actors who are positioned at the intersection of multiple temporal-relational contexts can develop greater capacities for creative and critical intervention." 

*Abstraction* (from contexts) is the operation done in develop greater capacities.

**Random bits of knowledge**
1. **Use "argues/says" instead of "believe":** "say" ≠ "believe", for I may not say what I fully believe.
2. **Usage of "like" as a filler word**: Don't, for the word has a purpose (eg comparision).
3. **Minutiae**: A collection of very specific things (Adjective is "minute" (very small)) 
4. **Orientalist vs Orientalism:** Knowledge of the East vs derogatory attitude towards the East

**Learn to recognise biases:** For eg from Rener's reading,
1. He doesn't know much about China - 
2. Attacking organised religion - He wrote the 5th gospel
3. He is anti Germany

## Lesson 1, 15/01: Introduction

**In one word, what is the skill (≠ content) this module is trying to teach?** Testing theory application (since theory is usually not applied to SG)

**Types of nationalism**
1. Primordial - natural, organic, indisputable, posited
2. Invented
3. Imagined

**Difference between Nation and State:**
In political science, a "*nation*" refers to a group of people who feel bound into a single body by shared culture, values, folkways, religion and/or language. A "*state*" just refers to a patch of land with a sovereign government.

> What is a nation-state?

**Random bits of knowledge**
1. Posits: put forward as *fact* (stems from the root word of deposit)
2. Gemeinshaft: (mein means) opinion
3. Gesellshaft: Artificial, machine-like construct
4. Orientalism: Perception that the East is backward, and inferior of the West.
